docs/src/rotation_methods.md, before:

# Rotation Criteria

FactorRotations.jl implements both orthogonal and oblique rotation criteria. The following tables list the available methods and their respective references.

## Orthogonal rotation criteria

| criterium                     | reference                            | note                                                    |
| ----------------------------- | ------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------- |
| [`Biquartimax`](@ref)         |                                      | equivalent to `Oblimin(gamma = 0.5, orthogonal = true)` |
| [`Biquartimin`](@ref)         | [jennrich2011](@citet)               |
| [`ComponentLoss`](@ref)       | [jennrich2004, jennrich2006](@citet) |
| [`CrawfordFerguson`](@ref)    | [crawford1970](@citet)               |
| [`Infomax`](@ref)             | [browne2001](@citet)                 | based on the unpublished manuscript McKeon (1968)       |
| [`KatzRohlf`](@ref)           |                                      |
| [`LinearRightConstant`](@ref) | [jennrich2004](@citet)               |
| [`MinimumEntropyRatio`](@ref) | [mccammon1966](@citet)               |
| [`MinimumEntropy`](@ref)      | [jennrich2004](@citet)               |
| [`Oblimax`](@ref)             |                                      |
| [`Oblimin`](@ref)             |                                      | equivalent to `Oblimin` for orthogonal rotation         |
| [`PatternSimplicity`](@ref)   | [bentler1977](@citet)                |
| [`Quartimax`](@ref)           | [neuhaus1954](@citet)                | equivalent to `Oblimin(gamma = 0, orthogonal = true)`   |
| [`TandemCriteria`](@ref)      | [comrey1967](@citet)                 |
| [`TandemCriterionII`](@ref)   | [comrey1967](@citet)                 | second step of [`TandemCriteria`](@ref)                 |
| [`TandemCriterionI`](@ref)    | [comrey1967](@citet)                 | first step of [`TandemCriteria`](@ref)                  |
| [`TargetRotation`](@ref)      |                                      |
| [`Varimax`](@ref)             | [kaiser1958](@citet)                 | equivalent to `Oblimin(gamma = 1, orthogonal = true)`   |

## Oblique rotation criteria

| criterium                   | reference                            | note                                              |
| --------------------------- | ------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------- |
| [`Absolmin`](@ref)          | [jennrich2006](@citet)               |
| [`Biquartimin`](@ref)       | [jennrich2011](@citet)               |
| [`ComponentLoss`](@ref)     | [jennrich2004, jennrich2006](@citet) |
| [`Concave`](@ref)           | [jennrich2006](@citet)               |
| [`CrawfordFerguson`](@ref)  | [crawford1970](@citet)               |
| [`Geomin`](@ref)            |                                      |
| [`Infomax`](@ref)           | [browne2001](@citet)                 | based on the unpublished manuscript McKeon (1968) |
| [`Oblimax`](@ref)           |                                      |
| [`Oblimin`](@ref)           |                                      |
| [`PatternSimplicity`](@ref) | [bentler1977](@citet)                |
| [`Simplimax`](@ref)         |                                      |
| [`TargetRotation`](@ref)    |                                      |

## References

```@bibliography
Pages = ["rotation_methods.md"]
```

Commit message:

Improve criteria performance (#66)
* geomin: optimize crtierion

* min_entropy: optimize criterion

* simplimax: optimize criterion

* tandem criteria: optimize

* generic weighted col and row sums criterion

* add Equamax and Parsimax

* CF: docstring tweaks

* Oblimin: docstring tweaks

* CompLoss: small docstring tweak

* Varimax: tweak docstring

* TargetRotation: skip weights if no missing

* fixup geomin

* docs: fix links

* docs: more verbose rotation methods description

* docs: add Equamax and Parsimin

* CF: clarify relation to Oblimin

* Oblimin: clarify relation to CF

* Oblimin: relation to Equamax & Parsimax

* Equamax: fix typo

* test Oblimin: Equamax and Parsimax equivalence

* weighted_sum_criterion(): move, add docstring

* Infomax: optimize calculations

* Biquartimin: optimize calculations

---------

Co-authored-by: Alexey Stukalov <astukalol@seer.bio>

docs/src/rotation_methods.md, after:

# [Rotation Methods](@id rotation_methods)

*FactorRotations.jl* implements multiple *orthogonal* and *oblique* rotation methods.

Let us consider the *p*-by-*k* factor loadings matrix *L* for *p* variables and *k* factors.
Most of the rotation methods aim to find the full-rank *k*-by-*k* rotation matrix *U*,
so that the rotated loadings matrix *Λ = L × U* optimizes the given *criterion* function *Q(Λ)*.

## Orthogonal methods

*Orthogonal* criteria restrict the rotation matrix *U* to be orthogonal.

| criterion                     | reference                            | note                                                    |
| ----------------------------- | ------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------- |
| [`Biquartimax`](@ref)         |                                      | equivalent to `Oblimin(gamma = 0.5, orthogonal = true)` |
| [`Biquartimin`](@ref)         | [jennrich2011](@citet)               |
| [`ComponentLoss`](@ref)       | [jennrich2004, jennrich2006](@citet) |
| [`CrawfordFerguson`](@ref)    | [crawford1970](@citet)               |
| [`Equamax`](@ref)             | [crawford1970](@citet)               | equivalent to `Oblimin(gamma = k/2, orthogonal = true)` |
| [`Infomax`](@ref)             | [browne2001](@citet)                 | based on the unpublished manuscript McKeon (1968)       |
| [`KatzRohlf`](@ref)           |                                      |
| [`LinearRightConstant`](@ref) | [jennrich2004](@citet)               |
| [`MinimumEntropyRatio`](@ref) | [mccammon1966](@citet)               |
| [`MinimumEntropy`](@ref)      | [jennrich2004](@citet)               |
| [`Oblimax`](@ref)             |                                      |
| [`Oblimin`](@ref)             |                                      |
| [`Parsimax`](@ref)            | [crawford1970](@citet)               | equivalent to `Oblimin(gamma = p*(k-1)/(p+k-2), orthogonal = true)`|
| [`PatternSimplicity`](@ref)   | [bentler1977](@citet)                |
| [`Quartimax`](@ref)           | [neuhaus1954](@citet)                | equivalent to `Oblimin(gamma = 0, orthogonal = true)`   |
| [`TandemCriteria`](@ref)      | [comrey1967](@citet)                 |
| [`TandemCriterionII`](@ref)   | [comrey1967](@citet)                 | second step of [`TandemCriteria`](@ref)                 |
| [`TandemCriterionI`](@ref)    | [comrey1967](@citet)                 | first step of [`TandemCriteria`](@ref)                  |
| [`TargetRotation`](@ref)      |                                      |
| [`Varimax`](@ref)             | [kaiser1958](@citet)                 | equivalent to `Oblimin(gamma = 1, orthogonal = true)`   |

## Oblique methods

*Oblique* criteria allow the rotation matrix *U* to be an arbitrary full-rank *k*-by-*k* matrix.

| criterium                   | reference                            | note                                              |
| --------------------------- | ------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------- |
| [`Absolmin`](@ref)          | [jennrich2006](@citet)               |
| [`Biquartimin`](@ref)       | [jennrich2011](@citet)               |
| [`ComponentLoss`](@ref)     | [jennrich2004, jennrich2006](@citet) |
| [`Concave`](@ref)           | [jennrich2006](@citet)               |
| [`CrawfordFerguson`](@ref)  | [crawford1970](@citet)               |
| [`Geomin`](@ref)            |                                      |
| [`Infomax`](@ref)           | [browne2001](@citet)                 | based on the unpublished manuscript McKeon (1968) |
| [`Oblimax`](@ref)           |                                      |
| [`Oblimin`](@ref)           |                                      |
| [`PatternSimplicity`](@ref) | [bentler1977](@citet)                |
| [`Simplimax`](@ref)         |                                      |
| [`TargetRotation`](@ref)    |                                      |

## References

```@bibliography
Pages = ["rotation_methods.md"]
```
